Sometimes we need to use JMS to perform request/response type operations.
As an example, as part of rendering a web page using JSPs,
you need to get some data.
That data is retrieved by placing a request message on
a queue and waiting for a response.
The problem here is that that JMS is asynchronous by nature,
so you need to tie the response back to unique requests and continue processing.
So how do we do that?
We can use the messageSelector API.
So in this example, I've got a method that starts a ConsumerService.
Now this represents some piece of logic that could run in a
totally different application or JVM,
but basically it receives messages from a queue,
and sends them to this CorrelationIdReplyMessageListener.
If we look at an implementation of that,
then it creates a response message for the request.
It then sets the JMSCorrelationID to the same value
as the inbound request message ID.
Now the JMSCorrelationID isn't specific to asynchronous messaging,
it can be used as part of asynchronous messaging to show that a number of
messages tied together as part of the chain are processing.
Anyway,
we then send the response message we have created
back on a queue called replyQueue.
Jumping back to the main example application,
so this block of code represents a sending
requestMessage onto the REQUEST_QUEUE, nothing new here.
The next part is where we call blockForMessage,
which will effectively block the current thread of
execution until we receive a response.
So we register a new consumer on the replyQueue,
but we also use a messageSelector that requests all messages that
have a string property of the correlationID,
which is equal to the ID of the requestMessage we've already sent.
We can then call the receive method on the consumer,
which will block indefinitely until we receive the response.
When we do, we can continue processing.
Now generally waiting indefinitely isn't a good idea,
there is a variant of this receive method where you can specify a timeout,
which could be an amount of time you'd be willing to
reasonably wait for a response.
Remember in our example, we said it might be a JSP page you're wanting to render.
You don't want to get the customer to wait indefinitely
without reporting some form of error.
In fact, in this case,
your request and response messages are only really valid for a period of time.
So, in case something goes wrong with your system,
and it's not responding within a reasonable amount of time,
you should also set the messages to expire after that period of time,
to avoid wasting resources on the message broker for
messages that no longer need to be processed.
So let's run this.
The output is simple.
You can see the message being sent and then us getting a response back for that request message.